---
title: KAIST pintOS Recap 1
categories: 
  - pintOS
relative: true
comments: true
---

# What is pintOS?

> pintOS is a simple operating system framework for education purpose.

In KAIST CS330, all students have to implement all the unimplemented code. In semester, whole pintOS divided by 4 chapters, which are THREADS, USER PROGRAMS, VIRTUAL MEMORY, FILE SYSTEM.

I'll upload how I implements the KAIST pintOS for these reasons.

1. Review my code, and learn from it.
2. There are so many similar codes just copy-and-paste from other blogs. And even eany of them are wrong, but lots of students just unconsciously copy it.
3. pintOS is very hard but lecture does not deal with pintOS itself.

However, I'll not provide a raw code, but just pseudo-code. Because of plagiariosm, a lot of students really get punishment by department at every semester. And to get higher score in project exam, implementing yourself is very important.
{: .notice--warning}


# How to start pintOS?

## [Document](https://casys-kaist.github.io/pintos-kaist/)

For whole semester, you have to just follow only the document. There was no notice about how to start project, when to start project, or how to implement functions in my case. The only guide is the document.

Also, implementing project in literal terms of document is very important. Almost instructions are very difficult and ambiguous. The only thing you can do is just read and read and read the document and pintOS code.

[pintos-kaist github repo](https://github.com/casys-kaist/pintos-kaist)

PintOS project code is uploaded on github. You can just fork or clone the code and download to your local environment.

> I want to implement project before semester.

[Docker](https://www.docker.com/) is an alternative option. Download docker image for ubuntu (Ubuntu 16.04.6 LTS) from docker hub and clone the repository.

After cloning, add thios line to the .bashrc in you home directory. Be careful of the directory.

```sh
source ./activate
```

And move on to the project folder, executae install.sh

```sh
./install.sh
```

Before start project you have to execute ``` make ```

```sh
cd threads
make
```

# pintOS hacks

## Testing

For each project, passing all tests is the only one goal. But testing itself is bothersome and time-consuming. So, using proper command is very important to successfully pass the tests.

To observe the progress of each test by specifying ``` VERBOSE = 1 ```

### Executing single test and grade it

```sh
cd build
make tests/threads/alarm-multiple.result
```

### Executing all tests

```sh
cd build
make check
```

### Executing all tests and show score

```sh
cd build
make grade
```

### Run test

T option indicate Timeout period.

```sh
// Testcase will exit after 10 seconds
pintos -T 10 -q run tests/threads/alarm-multiple
```

Test results are saved in ``` {proj}/build/test/{proj} folder ```. You can look at these .output and .result files, not have to test your code everytime.

## Debugging

[Debugging Tools](https://casys-kaist.github.io/pintos-kaist/appendix/debugging_tools.html)

### printf()

> Don't underestimate the value of printf(). The way printf() is implemented in Pintos, you can call it from practically anywhere in the kernel, whether it's in a kernel thread or an interrupt handler, almost regardless of what locks are held. printf() is useful for more than just examining data. It can also help figure out when and where something goes wrong, even when the kernel crashes or panics without a useful error message. The strategy is to sprinkle calls to printf() with different strings (e.g. "<1>", "<2>", . . . ) throughout the pieces of code you suspect are failing. If you don't even see <1> printed, then something bad happened before that point, if you see <1> but not <2>, then something bad happened between those two points, and so on. Based on what you learn, you can then insert more printf() calls in the new, smaller region of code you suspect. Eventually you can narrow the problem down to a single statement. See Triple Faults, for a related technique.

### ASSERT

> Assertions are useful because they can catch problems early, before they'd otherwise be noticed. Ideally, each function should begin with a set of assertions that check its arguments for validity. (Initializers for functions' local variables are evaluated before assertions are checked, so be careful not to assume that an argument is valid in an initializer.) You can also sprinkle assertions throughout the body of functions in places where you suspect things are likely to go wrong. They are especially useful for checking loop invariants.

> Pintos provides the ASSERT macro, defined in <debug.h>, for checking assertions.

``` #define ASSERT(expression) { /* Omit details */ } ```

>Tests the value of expression. If it evaluates to zero (false), the kernel panics. The panic message includes the expression that failed, its file and line number, and a backtrace, which should help you to find the problem. See Backtraces for more information.

### GDB

## VSCODE

### Remote Meeting

Real-time cooperation tool

### Search files by file name

``` Cmd-p ```

The Best funciton in VSCODE. Pintos has very large number of files and directories.