---
title: Trie
comments: true
---

## Definition

>In computer science, a trie, also called digital tree or prefix tree,[1] is a type of k-ary search tree, a tree data structure used for locating specific keys from within a set. These keys are most often strings, with links between nodes defined not by the entire key, but by individual characters. In order to access a key (to recover its value, change it, or remove it), the trie is traversed depth-first, following the links between nodes, which represent each character in the key.

Unlike a binary search tree, the position of a node in trie determines the key with which it is associated. All the children of a node have a common prefix of the string associated with that parent node, and the root is associated with the empty string.

***As a result, Trie has a O(n) complexity in terms of both space and time.***

{% include video id="tUBFINxzlLg" provider="youtube" %}

## Implementation

A basic structure type of Trie is following. It contains Trie array named `children` whose index represents the alphabetic index of character. `isEnd` indicates the end of string associated with.

When constructing a trie, it allocates memory for children and deallocates memory when destructing the trie.

```cpp
#define n_alphabet (26)

struct Trie {
  Trie* children[n_alphabet];
  bool isEnd;

  // constructor
  Trie () {
    memset(this->children, 0, sizeof(this->children));
    this->isEnd = false;
  }

  // destructor
  ~Trie() {
    for (int i = 0; i < n_alphabet; i++) {
      if (this->children[i]) delete this->children[i];
    }
  }
}
```

### Insertion

Insertion into trie is quite intuitive. Search children to find a character. If not exist, create a new Trie in that address. Finally, call child's insert() method to recursively insert the whole string.

```cpp
struct Trie {
  ...
  void insert(const char* key) {
    // the end of string
    if (key == '\0') {
      this->isEnd = true;
      return;
    }

    // assume that all characters are upper case
    // idx is the index of the character in alphabetic order
    // if the character do not exist in the children, create a new Trie
    int idx = *key - 'A';
    Trie* child = this->children[idx];
    if (child == NULL) {
      child = new Trie();
    }

    // add one to the pointer and call recursively
    child->insert(key + 1);
  }
  ...
}
```

### Searching

Search a string in a trie is guided by the characters in the children. It is same as Depth First Search algorithm.

1. Start from the child
2. Check whether the children contains a first character
3. If children contains the character, keep searching
4. Iterate 2-3
5. If the length of the string is equal to the leaf's level then succed. Otherwise, fail.

## Associated Problems

[https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/9202](https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/9202)